{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 MS Gothic;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was main.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.17 r1261 (released March 28, 2018) on Tue Nov  6 21:56:34 2018
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs20\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw12280\paperh15900\margl2680\margr2700\margt2540\margb1760\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Addressing the straggler problem for parameter server(CSCI 5570 proposal)\par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Jianlin Liu, Huichao Liang, Jiaxin Jiang\par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 \chdate \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 In our experiments, we have found that there are some straggler problems in the parameter systems. Hence, in this proposal, our group would propose some half-baked ideas. And at the end of this proposal, we will give a schedule about the implementation.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 1  Introduction\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 In the past nine weeks, our group have implemented the baseline of the parameter server system. However, we observe some straggler problems. Under Bulk Synchronous Parallel (BSP) computational model, all workers have to wait until the slowest worker finishes the computation in each iteration. The straggler problem will affect the performance of the overall system, especially when the number of the workers increases. In such situation, the computation resource will be wasted for most of the workers are idle.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 There are numerous reasons which lead to the straggler problems, e.g. unbalanced data distribution, hardware heterogeneity, resource contention and so on.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 In addition to straggler problems, we noticed that overhead of network communication will be a significant problem as the number of the workers increases. We need some optimization to eliminate the communication overhead.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 2  Possible solution\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 The first possible solution is that we try to make the data balance across the workers.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 The second solution is that we schedule the number of training data before each iteration. To achieve this goal, we will transfer a portion of the training data from straggler worker to another worker. To avoid massive data transport between workers, similar to redundancy strategy in consistent hashing, we can keep a backup data partition of next node in every node. So that each node is the backup node for its next node. When a straggler worker is detected, its backup node can start work steeling if it\u226?\u8364?\u8482?s possible. After this iteration, the workload can be transfer to backup worker permanently.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 As for communication pattern optimization, one natural solution is to merge redundant messages on the worker side. Another idea is to use shared memory for retrieving/ updating parameters when servers and workers are on the same node, and this is called local zero-copy communication. Based on these two idea proposed in \~
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_huang2018flexps \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1}}}
], we can further boost the systems performance. To make full use of local communication, we can scan the dataset to partition data by their related parameter\u226?\u8364?\u8482?s key. To be specific, data should be partitioned to the node in which the parameters and data are most correlative. In this case most of the GET/PUT request will be sent to local server thread. In order to achieve this goal, we can define a correlation metric between data and parameter partition called correlative score. Top k data with highest correlative score with a parameter partition will be assigned to that parameter partition to ensure evenness of data partition. This is based on the assumption that connections between data and parameters are sparse and evenly distributed.\par
\~
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 [{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_DBLP_conf_sigmod_ShiWM16 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{7}}}
] \~
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_DBLP_journals_tkde_YuanLCYWS17 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{9}}}
] \~
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_DBLP_journals_pvldb_YangDCC14 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{8}}}
] \~
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_DBLP_journals_pvldb_ZhengZPYSZ16 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{10}}}
] \~
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_DBLP_conf_icde_KargarACGSY15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4}}}
] \~
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_DBLP_conf_cikm_KargarA11 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}
] \~
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_DBLP_journals_tkde_KargarAY14 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{5}}}
] \~
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_DBLP_conf_icde_QinYCT09 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{6}}}
] \~
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_DBLP_journals_pvldb_KargarA11 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 3  Schedule\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 1.\tab
{\i0\scaps0\b Week 1. Literature review.} \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 2.\tab
{\i0\scaps0\b Week 2. Implementation.} \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 3.\tab
{\i0\scaps0\b Week 3. Testing.} \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 4.\tab
{\i0\scaps0\b Week 4. Optimization.} \par
}{\pard\plain\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb180 \fi0 {\plain\b\fs32 References}\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_huang2018flexps}1{\*\bkmkend BIB_huang2018flexps}]\tab
Y.\~Huang, T.\~Jin, Y.\~Wu, Z.\~Cai, X.\~Yan, F.\~Yang, J.\~Li, Y.\~Guo, and J.\~Cheng. Flexps: Flexible parallelism control in parameter server architecture. {\i Proceedings of the Very Large Data Bases Endowment}, 11(5):566\endash 579, 2018.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_DBLP_conf_cikm_KargarA11}2{\*\bkmkend BIB_DBLP_conf_cikm_KargarA11}]\tab
M.\~Kargar and A.\~An. Discovering top-k teams of experts with/without a leader in social networks. In {\i Proceedings of the 20th {ACM} Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, {CIKM} 2011, Glasgow, United Kingdom, October 24-28, 2011}, pages 985\endash 994, 2011.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_DBLP_journals_pvldb_KargarA11}3{\*\bkmkend BIB_DBLP_journals_pvldb_KargarA11}]\tab
M.\~Kargar and A.\~An. Keyword search in graphs: Finding r-cliques. {\i {Proceedings of the Very Large Data Bases Endowment}}, 4(10):681\endash 692, 2011.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_DBLP_conf_icde_KargarACGSY15}4{\*\bkmkend BIB_DBLP_conf_icde_KargarACGSY15}]\tab
M.\~Kargar, A.\~An, N.\~Cercone, P.\~Godfrey, J.\~Szlichta, and X.\~Yu. Meaningful keyword search in relational databases with large and complex schema. In {\i 31st {IEEE} International Conference on Data Engineering, {ICDE} 2015, Seoul, South Korea, April 13-17, 2015}, pages 411\endash 422, 2015.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_DBLP_journals_tkde_KargarAY14}5{\*\bkmkend BIB_DBLP_journals_tkde_KargarAY14}]\tab
M.\~Kargar, A.\~An, and X.\~Yu. Efficient duplication free and minimal keyword search in graphs. {\i {IEEE} Trans. Knowl. Data Eng.}, 26(7):1657\endash 1669, 2014.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_DBLP_conf_icde_QinYCT09}6{\*\bkmkend BIB_DBLP_conf_icde_QinYCT09}]\tab
L.\~Qin, J.\~X. Yu, L.\~Chang, and Y.\~Tao. Querying communities in relational databases. In {\i Proceedings of the 25th International Conference on Data Engineering, {ICDE} 2009, March 29 2009 - April 2 2009, Shanghai, China}, pages 724\endash 735, 2009.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_DBLP_conf_sigmod_ShiWM16}7{\*\bkmkend BIB_DBLP_conf_sigmod_ShiWM16}]\tab
J.\~Shi, D.\~Wu, and N.\~Mamoulis. Top-k relevant semantic place retrieval on spatial {RDF} data. In {\i Proceedings of the 2016 International Conference on Management of Data, {SIGMOD} Conference 2016, San Francisco, CA, USA, June 26 - July 01, 2016}, pages 1977\endash 1990, 2016.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_DBLP_journals_pvldb_YangDCC14}8{\*\bkmkend BIB_DBLP_journals_pvldb_YangDCC14}]\tab
M.\~Yang, B.\~Ding, S.\~Chaudhuri, and K.\~Chakrabarti. Finding patterns in a knowledge base using keywords to compose table answers. {\i {Proceedings of the Very Large Data Bases Endowment}}, 7(14):1809\endash 1820, 2014.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_DBLP_journals_tkde_YuanLCYWS17}9{\*\bkmkend BIB_DBLP_journals_tkde_YuanLCYWS17}]\tab
Y.\~Yuan, X.\~Lian, L.\~Chen, J.\~X. Yu, G.\~Wang, and Y.\~Sun. Keyword search over distributed graphs with compressed signature. {\i {IEEE} Trans. Knowl. Data Eng.}, 29(6):1212\endash 1225, 2017.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_DBLP_journals_pvldb_ZhengZPYSZ16}10{\*\bkmkend BIB_DBLP_journals_pvldb_ZhengZPYSZ16}]\tab
W.\~Zheng, L.\~Zou, W.\~Peng, X.\~Yan, S.\~Song, and D.\~Zhao. Semantic {SPARQL} similarity search over {RDF} knowledge graphs. {\i {Proceedings of the Very Large Data Bases Endowment}}, 9(11):840\endash 851, 2016.\par
}}}
